---
layout: post
title:  "A not-so-short intro."
date:   2016-04-18 05:29:48 -0700
description: I'm like, "hey, what's up, hello?"
categories: blog
---


> "Design can be art. Design can be aesthetics. Design is so simple, that's why it is so complicated."
>
> Paul Raud

Hi! My name is Doreen Trinh and I'm glad that we've found each other. I'm a junior web developer that enjoys the creative process and the technology behind web development. In my spare time, you can find me hiking in the woods, discovering new eateries in the city or trying out 3 coffee shops a day. I'm serious. <small>I have a drinking problem.. with coffee.</small><br>
<small>(Side note, in case you were wondering: my favorite coffee shops are [Better Buzzed Coffee][bbc], [Veronese Gallery Cafe][vgc] and [Portola Coffee Lab][pcl])</small>

A little bit more about me? Ever since I was young, web development has always intrigued me; I think I started around the peak of the MySpace era. It started out as, "Hey! This is neat. I can't believe I was able to do that." This thought started out as a hobby, but it slowly evolved to a career path. I absolutely love combining my creative imagination to produce technical solutions. At the time of writing this, I'm currently concentrated on learning more about <i>WordPress</i> and <i>PHP</i>.

<h1>About the Theme</h1>
It practically became a hobby of mine to tinker on my portfolio site. It's undergone numerous iterations, and I'm pretty sure I've gone through quite a bit of refactoring with this version. I'm not even sure if my font choices are good enough (typography is definitely a weak point of mine, but I've been working on it). On the bright side, I've always learned something new with each version, whether it be a nice tip in the UX realm or a new code snippet.

<h2>The Ingredients</h2>

- Built with [Jekyll][jekyll], assisted with [Bootstrap][bootstrap]
- Hosted on [GitPages][gitpages]
- Powered with HTML5, SASS and jQuery
- Header image provided by [Unsplash][unsplash]
- Some frustration included

<h2>Going Static: Why Jekyll?</h2>
"Why didn't you use Wordpress?" was a common question among my colleagues when it came to building this site. Don't get me wrong: Wordpress is a great piece of software, but I felt that it was overkill for my needs. It's filled with bloated code, security holes, and it's a slight nightmare to architect anything without compromise. I also didn't need an administrative area, or a <i>back-end</i>. I never had the need to venture to WordPress's WYSIWYG editors to edit any of my files; I did all on a text editor. For a simple portfolio site, WordPress was overly complicated.

On the other hand, Jekyll makes developing and blogging <i>ridiculously</i> easy. Jekyll has zero limitations; it doesn't compromise front-end development since it doesn't confine you with codes that you didn't write. Instead of following a strict folder structure (<i><small>looking at you, Wordpress</small></i>), I can set up my project however I want, construct my pages and posts to look how I want, define everything to my own liking, and more without overriding the defaults. All of this is possible in WordPress or any other CMS, but you have to take a ton of extra steps to do so. Without spending too much time describing why Jekyll is more beneficial than WordPress for me in this case, some other benefits of Jekyll include developing a site locally without the need for MAMP and blogging made easy as you can write in plain HTML + Markdown and not a WYSIWYG editor.

WordPress is amazing, but it was overkill for my needs.

<small>TL;DR: I started out with coding static websites anyhow, so I much prefer building my own portfolio site from the ground up than to strip away code and navigate through databases. Jekyll allows you total control while Wordpress provides code bloat. Best of all, GitHub Pages provides free hosting for static websites <i>and</i> it's powered by Jekyll.</small>

<h2>The Design Behind the Development</h2>
I wanted a one page portfolio site equipped with light boxes for the sake of simplicity and ease of navigation. Since I was just starting out with this career path, I didn't want to clutter my personal website. I initially built this portfolio without the blog because I didn't think about blogging about my thoughts initially, but the deeper I dived into web development, the more I wanted to jot down my thoughts and musings.

The color choices were based on the header image for the site. I love Unsplash; it's an amazing resource for free, hipster, high resolution photos. To be frank, color is a tricky beast and it matters immensely in UX design. I chose this color theme of "dark gray blue" because a) I didn't want to use any bright or bold colors, to make it easy on the eyes, and more importantly, b) blue is known to be the color of "peace, trust and loyalty."

<h1>Process</h1>
Here's my multi-tracked thought process when it came to crafting this site.

- Drink a cup of coffee
- Create a wireframe on Illustrator
- Flesh out each section on [Atom][atom]
- Fill it with content
- Go back and refactor the code
- Stare at the ceiling and wonder if my font choices are okay
- Drink another cup of coffee
- Test for mobile responsiveness and any bugs
- Hope that it doesn't break
- Revisit the site a month later and refactor the code again
- And hope that it doesn't break

<small>Along with, but not limited to, crying over browser compatibility, being frustrated at the fact that CSS doesn't output errors (all of those gotchas are a pain, especially with <i>floats</i>) or why JavaScript isn't attaching a class to a certain HTML element (like.. that sticky navigation on the home page was pretty frustrating to figure out).</small>

A more detailed write-up about other design and development choices may or may not be in the works, but for now, thanks for reading!

[bbc]:        http://www.betterbuzzcoffee.com/
[vgc]:        http://www.yelp.com/biz/veronese-gallery-cafe-fullerton-2
[pcl]:        http://www.portolacoffeelab.com/
[jekyll]:     http://jekyllrb.com/
[bootstrap]:  https://getbootstrap.com/
[gitpages]:   https://pages.github.com/
[unsplash]:   http://unsplash.com
[atom]:       http://atom.io
