---
layout: post
title:  "Moving from university syllabi to an ever-changing industry."
date:   2016-09-12 06:03:00 -0700
description: A brain-dump of my recent experiences.
categories: blog, personal
---

For the past year, I've been dipping my feet in an ocean of start-ups. I've designed and developed a number of websites, which are linked [here][fgs], [here][bound], and [here][anderson]. (although some of them are still hosted on their staging servers). I've also helped design a mobile app among other side projects. 2016 has been a humbling year for me so far; I've learned so much about web development, and it doesn't seem like I'll ever stop learning.

As 2016 nears its end, my passion for web development is still going strong. After obtaining an excellent grasp on PHP and the WordPress infrastructure this past summer, I recently started on [Codecademy's course on ReactJS][reactjs]. It's very interesting so far, to say the least. Combining HTML and JS definitely requires time to get used to.

<h2 style="padding-top: 30px">Transferrable Skills</h2>
For the most part, the skills that I've learned in college easily transferred to the workforce. How to communicate, how to work effectively as a team, and how to work independently were some of the skills. What seems to make the transition from university courses to the web development industry is the lack of up-to-date technical courses.

I've mentioned in my previous posts that I began my journey in web development during middle school. After diving back into web development again after graduating, I've seen a lot of new and exciting changes in the field that allows me to do more than what I could do a decade ago. There has been countless changes to code standards, new frameworks (hello angular and react), and design trends. Parallax scrolling was a big trend in 2014, but one can see that it's fading away as soon as it rose.

<!-- in this era of easily accessible online education, i took it upon myself to learn all of these new technologies available to me as a web dev -->
Like many others in my situation, I had to resort to self teaching once again due to the fast-paced nature of the web development industry. Fortunately, in this industry, we're spoiled by a vast amount of online resources. If I ever found myself in between a rock and a hard place, or if I wanted to learn a new skill, a quick Google/Stack Overflow search pushes me in the right direction.

<h2 style="padding-top: 30px">What's next?</h2>
Well, first thing is first, I need to stop buying make-up. In all seriousness, working as an independent contractor is fun but I'm hoping to expand my horizons towards a full-time job. After a year of both skill development and web development, I would like to contribute my potential towards newer and larger challenges. I feel like I could learn a lot more about my field from other people and their experiences, especially senior developers. I'm always on a quest to learn more, and sharing ideas with coworkers sounds like a great start.


[fgs]:        www.foregroundstudios.net/demo-home/
[anderson]:   http://team-age.com/
[bound]:      http://bound.staging.wpengine.com
[reactjs]:    https://www.codecademy.com/learn/react-101
